# COVID19-Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis
We are a group of undergraduate and graduate students from the National University of Singapore. As part of our Big Data Systems for Data Science module (CS4225), we embarked on a project that involved performing sentiment analysis on over 1TB of data (tweets). 


## Introduction 

Covid-19 is turning out to be one of the biggest pandemics that humanity has ever faced. The virus has infected 33.8 million people and claimed 1.01 million lives till date. With governments imposing restrictions, disrupting our daily routines in the process and the threat of getting infected, these are troubling times indeed.

This study aims to give a country-level representation of the sentiments felt by people based on certain Covid-19 events (e.g., death count, actions taken by the government etc.). For example, on March 25th, India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed the largest lockdown in the world which essentially kept 1.35 billion people at home. With only 500 cases and 10 deaths so far, the strict 3-week lockdown was imposed in a bid to contain the virus. How did the people of India react to the news? Some say they were annoyed and angry while others claim they were happy such measures were being put in place. What exactly is the public sentiment towards such a measure? This is just one of many examples where it may be possible to identify correlations, gauging how the public would react towards certain events which transpire. Keeping in mind that correlation does not always entail causation, we hope to give world bodies an estimate as to how certain events might change the public’s outlook and in turn, relevant authorities will be better equipped to help their people. 

Since the start of the pandemic, countries have been reporting their statistics based on Covid-19 events (e.g., death count, case count etc.) to promptly reflect the situation in their country. These numbers are reported by an approved body within each country. With these numbers along with some gauge of sentiment, we can then identify possible correlations. However, gauging the public’s sentiment is no easy task, which is why we have decided to use one of the most popular social media platforms, Twitter. As of the start of 2020, Twitter has 330 million monthly active users and 145 million daily active users. With huge amounts of tweets made publicly available (more data → better averages/predictions) as well as easy-to-use API’s, sentiment analysis on tweets is an ideal choice.
